 SIMPLIFIED SELECTION PROCESS IPEA/PROCIN Nº 002/2023 - SCHOLARSHIP
                             AWARD

The Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA), a public foundation linked to the
Ministry of Planning and Budget, which develops research and provides technical and
institutional support to government for the formulation and evaluation of policies and
programs, INFORMS those interested in the selection process to Doctor scholarship,
under the terms of IPEA Ordinance No. 339 of 08/12/2010 and 345 of 08/18/2010 and
its amendments.

1. PURPOSE

The present Simplified Selection Process aims at selecting a researcher who is
currently working abroad and is interested in developing activities for the Research
Project: “IpeaDATA-lab”.

2. OBJECTIVE

To collaborate in activities focused on sharing advanced knowledge in causal inference
methods and public policy evaluation, both with Ipea researchers and professionals from
other institutions within the Federal Executive branch. The main objective is to
disseminate innovative approaches in this field and facilitate the development of a
comprehensive catalog of proposals for quantitative policy evaluations.

3. QUANTITY AND DURATION OF THE SCHOLARSHIP

1 (one) grant will be given, with a duration of 45 (forty-five) days and may be renewed

4. CANDIDATE REQUIREMENTS

4.1. Minimum experience of 5 (five) years in the field of na área quantitative evaluation
of public policies, with emphasis on econometric methods and causal inference.
4.2. Have an effective occupation abroad.

5. IDENTIFICATION OF THE RESEARCHER

Name: Pedro CL Souza
Academic area: Economics
Country of origin: Brazil (the researcher has Brazilian citizenship, but currently
resides in the United Kingdom, where he works as a professor and researcher at a
university in that country).

6. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE CANDIDATE'S RECOMMENDATION

 Professor Pedro CL Souza holds a Master's and a Doctorate degree in Economics from
 the London School of Economics (2009-2015). Since 2021, he has been a Senior
 Lecturer in Economics and Finance at Queen Mary University in London, United
Kingdom. From 2018 to 2021, he was an Assistant Professor in the Economics
department at Warwick University, also in the United Kingdom. Prior to that (2015-
2018), he was a professor of Economics at Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de
Janeiro (PUC-RJ).

He teaches courses in Economics and Finance at the master's and doctoral levels.
Currently, in master's courses, he teaches disciplines such as Applied
Microeconometrics in R and Machine Learning for Finance. In the Economics PhD
program at Queen Mary University, he is responsible for the Applied Econometrics
course. He is also an associate editor at Economics Journal and serves as a referee for
publications such as Journal of Political Economy, American Economic Review, Review
of Economic Studies, Journal of Econometrics, and Review of Economic and Statistics.

In addition to his academic trajectory, Professor Pedro has extensive experience in
projects focused on the evaluation of public policies. He has received funding from
various agencies to conduct projects on the effectiveness of the prison system in Brazil
(Effectiveness of the Prison System in Brazil, HSS Collaboration and Strategic Impact
funding), policies for migrants in India (Alleviating Loneliness Among Migrant Garment
Workers in India, JPal/GEA and USAID/DIV), and combating domestic violence ("Rede
Catarina: Targeting Victims and Aggressors of Domestic Violence", University of
Warwick).

His main research interest are Microeconometrics, Applied Microeconomics and Social
Networks. Major publications:

1. The Empirics of Network Models in Oxford Handbook Research Encyclopaedia of
    Economics and Finance, 2023.
2. Housing Insecurity and Homelessness: Evidence from the UK, with Thiemo Fetzer
    and Srinjoy Sen. Journal of European Economic Association, Volume 21, Issue 2,
    2023.
3. Restricted Access: How the Internet Can Be Used to Promote Reading and Learning,
    with Laura Derksene Catherine Leclerc (University of Toronto). Journal of
    Development Economics, Vol. 155, issue C, 2022.
4. Does Community Policing Build Trust in Police and Reduce Crime? Evidence from
    Six Coordinated Field Experiments in the Global South. Metaketa-IV initiative.
    Science, Vol. 374, No. 6571, 2021.
5. Security Transitions, with Thiemo Fetzer (University of Warwick), Oliver Vanden
    Eynde (PSE) and Austin Wright (Chicago). American Economic Review, Vol. 111,
    No. 7, 2021.
6. Econometrics of Networks with Limited Access to Network Data, in Handbook of
    Empirical Microeconomics, edited by M. Thorton and N. Hashimzade, Edward Elgar,
    2021.
7. Estimation and Selection of Spatial Weight Matrix in a Spatial Lag Model, with
    Clifford Lam (LSE). Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, Vol. 38, Issue 3,
    2020.
8. A Test for Stationarity in the Spectral Domain, with Javier Hidalgo (LSE).
    Econometric Theory, Vol. 35, Issue 3, 2019.
9. Detection and Estimation of Block Structure in Spatial Weight Matrix, with Clifford
    Lam. Econometric Reviews, Vol. 35, Issue 8-10, 2016.
10. Testing for Equality of an Increasing Number of Spectral Density Functions I, with
    Javier Hidalgo in Topics in Nonparametric Statistics, edited by M.G. Atikas, S.N.
    Lahiri e D. Politis, Springer, 2013.
  7.   MODALITY

   DOCTOR

  7.1 SCHOLARSHIP

  The scholarship will be awarded as described below:


   Category/Modality                   Value in US$ Mohth

   Doctor                              2,000.00

  7.1.1. The payment of the scholarship will be made in Brazil through a Bank Order.
  The amount will be converted at the exchange rate on the payment day and will be
  issued or deposited in the scholarship holder's bank account abroad, deducting bank
  charges for remittance.
  7.1.2. The scholarship may pay for health insurance, intended to cover the scholarship
  holder's medical and hospital expenses, and it is up to him/her to carry out the proper
  contracting.

  8. TIMELINE

       EVENTS                                DATE
       Deadline for objection               July 19, 2023
       Scholarship implementation           From July 21, 2023


  9. OBJECTION OF THE SIMPLIFIED SELECTION PROCESS

  The present selection process may be challenged within the period set out in the
  schedule, by a researcher who meets the candidate requirements, contained in item 4
  (four) of this selection process, presenting the curriculum. If granted, the public call will be
  opened under the terms of art. 5 of Ordinance 339 of 08/12/2010. The objection must be
  addressed to IPEA by electronic means to the address: pnpd@ipea.gov.br.
7.1.2. A bolsa
hospitalares dopoderá  custear
                bolsista,      seguro
                          cabendo a elesaúde,
                                        efetuardestinado
                                                a devida à cobertura de despesas médicas e
                                                         contratação.
   10. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SCHOLARSHIP

  After the objection period, the candidate must submit the following documentation:
  a) Registration Form;
  b) Copy of a valid passport.

  11. REVOCATION OR ANULLMENT OF THE SIMPLIFIED SELECTION PROCESS
At any time, this selection process may be revoked or annulled, in whole or in part, either
by a unilateral decision of IPEA, or for reasons of public interest or legal requirements, in
a reasoned decision, without this implying rights to compensation or claim of any nature.

12. FOR CLARIFICATION AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Clarification or additional information concerning the contents of this selection process
may be obtained through the following email address: pnpd@ipea.gov.br and telephone
number 55 (61) 2026-5219, by referring to the number of the selection process

13. RESERVATION CLAUSE

IPEA holds the right to resolve omitted cases and unforeseen events in the present
selective process.

                                                                 Brasília, July 3, 2023



                             MARINÉSIA LEMOS SOUTO
             General Contracting, General Services, and Research Support
                                Coordinator - CGCAP
                                  ANNEX I
                  RESEARCH SCHOLARSHIP - TERM OF REFERENCE


1.     PROJECT

     “IpeaDATA-lab”.

2. RESEARCH PURPOSE

The IpeaDATA-lab is a project coordinated by the Data Science Coordination
(COCD/CGDTI) at Ipea. The responsibilities of the coordination are as follows:

I - Investigate and disseminate the necessary technical knowledge for the adoption of
technologies in data science, artificial intelligence, information technology, computing, and
communication, with the aim of empowering researchers and technicians; and

II - Promote the debate on statistical and econometric modeling knowledge to encourage
evidence-based scientific research and innovation in research.

Within these competencies, the IpeaDATA-lab aims to "develop and implement data science
solutions to support research, planning, monitoring, and evaluation of public policies," in
order to enhance Ipea's capacity to implement and disseminate new methodologies.

The knowledge exchange on "Econometrics and Causal Inference" aligns with the COCDM's
role of "promoting the debate on statistical and econometric modeling knowledge" and
enables the adoption of cutting-edge methodologies for quantitative policy evaluation by the
technical staff at Ipea.

3. Activities to be undertaken by the Fellow:

The fellow will be responsible for conducting a series of activities over a six-week period
aimed at sharing advanced knowledge on causal inference methods and public policy
evaluation with researchers from Ipea and other institutions within the Federal Executive
branch.

These activities will include conducting online meetings and organizing an in-person seminar
with a focus on practical applications of causal inference techniques. The main objective is
to disseminate these innovative approaches, providing participants with a deep
understanding and practical skills to enhance their research and contribute to the formulation
of more effective public policies.

4. EXPECTED RESULTS

During the fellow's tenure, the following outcomes are expected to be achieved:
1. Expansion and optimization of knowledge among Ipea researchers: Participants will
   be exposed to advanced concepts in quantitative evaluation of public policies,
   utilizing observational data and econometric methods of causal inference. This will
   enable them to enhance their understanding of these approaches and develop
   improved skills for conducting more precise and reliable analyses.
2. Development of a catalog of policy evaluation proposals: Participating researchers
   will be encouraged to compile a catalog containing proposals for public policy
   evaluations using causal inference design. This activity will promote the practical
   application of the acquired knowledge.
3. With enhanced knowledge and the application of advanced causal inference
   techniques, it is expected that the research conducted by Ipea researchers will
   provide even more robust evidence for policy formulation.
