SIMPLIFIED SELECTION PROCESS IPEA/PROCIN No. 001/2023 - SCHOLARSHIP

                                        AWARD


The Institute for Applied Economic Research (IPEA), a public foundation linked to the
Brazil’s Ministry of Planning and Budget which conducts research and provides technical
and institutional support for government actions in the formulation and evaluation of
development policies and programs, hereby INFORMS, those interested in the grant
selection process for Senior Doctor Reseacher, pursuant to IPEA Ordinances No. 339
of 08/12/2010 and 345 of 08/18/2010 and their amendments.

1. OBJECT
This Simplified Selection Process aims to select a foreign researcher interested in
developing activities in the Research Project: “Subjectivities, Health and Judicial Work in
Labor Justice”.

2. OBJECTIVE

Collaborate with the Ipea team in the execution of preliminary research whose objective
is to know the working conditions of magistrates and servants of the Labor Court,
considering the relationship between the work environment and the worker of Labor
Justice, in the perspective of mental health and the relationship between subject,
suffering, satisfaction and work.

3. SCHOLARSHIP QUANTITY AND DURATION

01 (one) scholarship will be awarded with a duration of 45 (forty-five) days, which may
be renewed.

4. CANDIDATE REQUIREMENTS
4.1. Being a foreign researcher from a country with which Brazil has an international
cooperation agreement.
4.2. Experience of at least 10 (ten) years in the areas of Occupational Health, with an
emphasis on Mental Health and related to Ergonomics and Clinics in Psychology or
Psychodynamics of Work.
4.3. Having effective, relevant and current performance abroad.

5. IDENTIFICATION OF THE RECOMMENDED RESEARCHER

Name: Patricio Tomás Nusshold

Academic background/areas of expertise: Psychology

Country of origin:. France/Argentina (The researcher has French and Argentinian
citizenship and currently resides in France, where he works as professor, assistant and
research associate at universities in that country).

6. JUSTIFICATION FOR THE CANDIDATE'S RECOMMENDATION

The researcher has extensive experience in studies in clinical psychology and
organizational psychology, working mainly on topics such as psychopathologies, clinical
evaluations, psychodynamics of work and ergonomics. He holds a doctor
degree in Psychodynamics of Work (CNAM, France and the University of Buenos Aires),
worked as a Researcher associated with the Psychology laboratory PCPP (Psychology,
Psychopathology and Psychoanalysis Clinic) at the University of Paris, in addition to
being a member of the Psychodynamique du Travail et de l'Action, the Asociación de
Ergonomia Argentina and the International Ergonomics Association. Furthermore,
Nusshold is a senior researcher (maître de conférences) at the University Paul Valéry
Montpellier 3.

Among his works, we highlight:

CUENCA, Gabriela; NUSSHOLD, Patricio. Ergonomic analysis for elementary school
teachers. Preliminary trial for elementary schools in the province of Buenos Aires. Work,
v. 41, n. Supplement 1, p. 3685-3692, 2012.

NUSSHOLD, Patricio Tomas. Sufrimiento ético en las actividades de servicio. In: VI
Congreso Internacional de Investigación y Práctica Profesional en Psicología XXI
Jornadas de Investigación Décimo Encuentro de Investigadores en Psicología del
MERCOSUR. Facultad de Psicología-Universidad de Buenos Aires, 2014.

NUSSHOLD, Patricio; POY, Mario. Ergonomie et psychodynamique du travail. La
situation de la formation et la pratique professionnelle des deux approches en Argentine.
Travailler, n. 2, p. 75-88, 2015.

NUSSHOLD, Patricio. Organisation du travail et souffrance psychique dans les activités
de service: le cas des centres d'appel en Argentine. 2015. Tese de Doutorado.
Conservatoire national des arts et metiers-CNAM; Universidad de Buenos Aires.

BAUDIN, Carole; NUSSHOLD, Patricio. Digitalização e evolução do trabalho real:
introdução. Laboreal, v. 14, n. Nº2, 2018.

NUSSHOLD, Patricio. Une réflexion autour de la recherche dans le cadre d’une
association en lien avec les services de santé au travail. Travailler, n. 1, p. 31-38, 2019.

NUSSHOLD, Patricio. Intelligence du corps et new public management. Corps &
Psychisme, n. 2, p. 85-97, 2020.

7. MODALITY OF THE SCHOLARSHIP

Senior Doctor

7.1 MODALITY OF SUPPORT

The grant will be funded in the modality described below:


 Category/Type of Grant                Values (US$/Month)
 Senior Doctor                         2,400.00

7.1.1. Payment of the monthly scholarship amount may either take place in Brazil through
a Payment Order, with the value converted at the exchange rate of the issue date of the
payment, or transferred to the bank account of the researcher, net of bank charges.


8. CHRONOGRAM
                    EVENTS                                        DATES
 Deadline for challenging the selection process     July 19, 2023
 Implementation of scholarship                      Starting on July 21, 2023


9. CHALLENGING THE SIMPLIFIED SELECTION PROCESS

The present selection process may be challenged until the date stated at the
Chronogram above, by any researcher who fulfills the requirements for candidacy listed
on Section 4 (four) of the present selection process, by submitting his/her curriculum. In
the case of approval, a public call will be open pursuant to Section 5 of IPEA’s Ordinance
No. 339 of August 12, 2010. The challenge shall be e-mailed to IPEA at the following
address: pnpd@ipea.gov.br.

10. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SCHOLARSHIP

After the deadline for challenges, the selected candidate must submit the following
documentation:

a) Registration Form;
b) Copy of the passport.

11. REVOCATION OR ANULLMENT OF THE SIMPLIFIED SELECTION PROCESS

At any moment, the present selection process may be revoked or annulled, entirely or in
part, either as a unilateral decision made by IPEA as a result of a reasoned decision, or
due to public interest or legal requirements, without providing rights to compensation
or claims of any nature.


12. FOR CLARIFICATIONS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

Clarification or additional information concerning the contents of this selection process
may be obtained through the following email address pnpd@ipea.gov.br and telefone
number 55 (61) 3515-5219, by referring to the number of the selection process.


13. RESERVATION CLAUSE:

IPEA holds the right to resolve omitted cases and unforeseen events in the present
selective process.

                                                            Brasília, 23 June   ,2023



                         MARINÉSIA LEMOS SOUTO
   Coordenadora Geral de Contratações, Serviços Gerais e Apoio à Pesquisa -
                                  CGCAP


                            APPENDIX I
     TERM OF REFERENCE FOR GRANTING OF RESEARCH SCHOLARSHIP
1.     Project Title: “Subjectivities, Health and Judicial Work in Labor Justice”

2.     Purpose of Work

This call is intended for the execution of preliminary research whose objective is to
understand working conditions of magistrates and civil servants of the Labor Court. The
aim is to understand the relationship between the work environment and Justice servants
(including judges), from the perspective of mental health and the relationship between
subject, suffering, satisfaction and work. The research project should include
organizational and subjective aspects and the conditions of face-to-face, hybrid and
home office based work for magistrates and civil servants, the psychosocial risk factors
and the opportunities of each kind of work, as well as their relationships with the use of
technological and digital tools in the labor justice work environment.

3. Activities to be undertaken by the Fellow:

The researcher must carry out a preliminary research that presents the methodology to
be used, design of the team in charge to carry out the definitive research, projection of
resources to be used, implementation schedule, risks involved, strategies for ensuring
full attendance to ethics on research and preliminary results, in order to understand the
relationship between the work environment and the workers of the Labor Justice – judges
and civil servants – from the perspective of mental health and the relationship between
subject, suffering, satisfaction, use of technologies and modalities and management of
work processes in Labor Justice (labor courts). In order to achieve these purposes, the
researcher must also participate in periodic alignment meetings with the Brazilian
Superior Labor Court (TST) staff and relevant invited personnel, to adequacy of the
project to the reality of the Labor Court in Brazil.


4. Expected Results:
Research report and participation in an event (expanded technical meeting) with
presentation of results.
